# NLP-Lexata-Project
## Lexata Capstone Project using NLP and GPT-3 AI engine to extract and perfrom semantic searching techniques.

This project was undertaken as a part of Data Science graduate Capstone project. Lexata is an intelligent security law research system which enables the lawyers to search for the specific law documents and browse through the sections of the documents and aims in reducing the efforts of browsing through the law books and redundant sections. Leslie McCallum is the CEO and the domain expert in securities law. She is the stakeholder engaging the development and implementation of the platform. She has a proposal to implement a search technique that not only retrieves the information but also provides a summary of the top search results. As a part of WIL agreement RMIT students have collaborated to use data science techniques specifically in NLP and language processing domains to achieve the aims of Leslie's vision towards Lexata's future. This project explains the collaborative efforts taken by the RMIT students and the Lexata stakeholders to achieve the vision of Lexata in providing the semantic searching techniques. To proceed with the requirement, an extensive research in the existing solutions and the effective difference that can add value to the existing platform was conducted. Based on this research a GPT-3 open AI platform was selected and proposed as the solution for semantic searching techniques. GPT-3 is an auto regressive Natural Language Processing Algorithm which has been trained on 175 billion parameters. These parameters include the legal data corpus hence its abilities to recognize and process legal terms were explored and analysed. However, integration of GPT-3 with the existing platform and providing results based on the customized data corpus was a challenge. This project follows a methodology which elaborates the complete process from collection of data to parsing and then integrating the GPT-3 engine. The GPT-3 platform is then critically analysed insights are shared with the client in a timely manner to have the feedback of the domain experts as the legal terms retrieved from the searches are legal terms. The main language engines of GPT-3 are utilized to render information on our data corpus and provide a summary of information based on the input search query. Since this is a new technology and still under development limited resources and information is published, this makes the extraction of insights a questionable process. Overall, the project finds its scope in delivering a Minimum Viable Product which is capable of automatically parsing, dividing the information, and then modelling the data. A search query functionality that is embedded provides the outputs from the GPT-3 integrated engine and summarizes the information for the end user that may or may not be domain expert. This increases the scope of Lexata as it can now target larger audience and the scope is no longer limited to the legal domain experts which is a huge gain in terms of existing market position.  
